                    MYST ISLAND WALKTHROUGH
                        by Stan Trevena
     This walkthrough of Broderbund's Myst is broken into 3
  parts. This, the first part, covers Myst Island. Part 2
  covers the Stoneship Age and Selenitic Age, while part 3
  covers the Mechanical Age, Channelwood Age, and the End
  Game. Since Myst is not linear in nature, these ages can be
  visited in any order. The big hint in Myst is not to be
  afraid to try anything in the game. You can neither die nor
  can you reach a "point of no return," as is so often found
  in many other adventure games. Ergo, always "go for it."
                                            Fantasy Island [>] 
  
     After the introduction, you are left staring at the Myst
  book. Touch this book and it expands to fill your screen.
  Touch it again and it will open to reveal a small picture
  window on the right page with no writing. If you wait a few
  seconds, the picture will spring to life with a flyby tour
  of Myst Island. Each Myst linking book will do this when
  opened. It is best to sit back and watch the video, as it
  gives you a general "lay of the land" that will assist you
  in finding your way around a new age. Each age consists of a
  giant puzzle in the form of an island. To learn more about
  each of these ages, consult the local library.
                                           The Family Tree [>] 
  
     You will not encounter many people in Myst. Atrus is the
  progenitor of Myst and all it's ages. He uses an art he
  learned from his father to link these ages together. It is
  never really explained, but it seems that whatever Atrus
  writes in his books becomes reality in the different ages.
  The 1 reference to this is in the Stoneship Age and the gift
  he gave to the boys there. It will become obvious later what
  went wrong with the ship Atrus created. Atrus has 2 sons,
  Sirrus and Achenar, whom you will learn of early in your
  adventure in Myst, and a dear wife, Catherine, who is
  apparently being held hostage in another land.
                                           Where To Start? [>] 
  
     Myst island is where you start the game:
     First, Anything you encounter in Myst that can be
  manipulated should be. In other words, push all buttons,
  flip all switches, turn all dials, and so forth. One thing
  is almost certain: if it moves, it has something to do with
  solving a puzzle. There are no 1-way manipulations,
  everything can be returned to it's original state. Your
  first objective on Myst Island is to locate all the marker
  switches and turn them to the 'up' position. These look like
  podiums with a large power switches set into the surface.
  They must all be activated to get off the island.
                                            On Your Marker [>] 
  
     You'll land on the dock after touching the page in the
  Myst book. To your left is the outline of a door set into
  the wall by the dock. If you want, open this door and go in.
  This is the dimensional imager that you will soon learn of.
  If you care to venture forth at this point, go down the
  stairs and at the base turn to your right and click on the
  page on the wall. When it is in full view, note the list of
  three items and their associated imager numbers. Press the
  small blue button above and to the left of the page on the
  wall. This will slide open an access panel and allow you to
  key in an imager code.
                                             Mirror Mirror [>] 
  
     Use the up and down arrows below each digit to set a code
  into the imager control panel. Now turn around and walk to
  the imager. Set into its base is a yellow button which, when
  pressed, displays the image. When no code is set, you will
  only see what looks like water. After you're familiar with
  the workings of the imager, it's time to leave. Go back out
  to the dock and walk towards what looks like a large gear
  mechanism set on a hill at the top of some stairs. At the
  base of the stairs you will encounter your first marker
  switch; go ahead and flip it on. Climb the stairs and flip
  on the marker switch next to the large gear.
                                              What A View! [>] 
  
     Take a moment to catch your breath after climbing all
  those stairs and look around. Hmm... there's a lot more to
  explore. Go down the stairs towards the rotunda. On your
  way, pick up the note on the grass. It's from Atrus to his
  wife Catherine. It tells of a message that's left on the
  imager in the fore-chamber by the dock. Sound familiar?
  Onward and (back) upward. The rotunda is used later to
  decode a sequence of star constellations. For now, flip the
  marker switch to the left of the door. Walk up the wood
  steps, past the library, right, and out to the spaceship on
  the point.
                                             What A Blast! [>] 
  
     There's an elevated walkway leading out to the space-
  ship. Notice the brick tower to the left as you go out
  supporting a power line running to the spaceship (you may be
  back for that switch later if you trip the breaker.) Go out
  to the spaceship and flip on the marker switch. Go back to
  the library, follow the grassy path away from the library
  towards the distant Clock Tower. On your way, you will find
  a large water filled marble basin with a miniature sunken
  ship. Maybe this location holds the key to raising that
  ship? Flip on the marker switch just past the large marble
  basin and to the left of the path.
                                               Power Plant [>] 
  
     As you've probably noticed, the power line from the
  spaceship has been running parallel to the path just beyond
  those strange pillars. In front of each pillar is a raised
  metal marker with a bronze plate set into the face of each
  that vibrates and glows red when touched. Each plate has a
  symbol etched into it. Do not touch any of these plates just
  yet. Instead, sketch each of the symbols etched into the
  plates. Continue on down the path, past the marble basin,
  following the power line. Just off to the right is the
  entrance to the underground power generation plant for the
  island, which is where the power line ends.
                                                  Shocking [>] 
  
     Go right and you will find the small brick building that
  houses the entrance to the underground power plant. For now,
  flip on the marker switch to the left of the door. Don't
  worry, you'll come back to this building in a bit.
     Notice there's another brick tower with a breaker switch
  off behind the brick building. Go back to the path and head
  for the clock tower in the distance. There's a control box
  just at the waters edge. On it there's a large and small
  dial as well as a red button. These dials set the time on
  the clock tower. There's a marker switch out by the Clock
  Tower. Unfortunately, you can't swim.
                                  Trees Through The Forest [>] 
  
     Therefore, follow the shore around to the little log
  cabin. There's another marker switch to the right of the
  door. As usual, flip it to the 'on' position. That's a
  really large tree back behind the cabin. If you want, go
  take a look at the big tree and poke around the cabin. We'll
  be waiting for you when you get back here.
     That's the last marker switch on Myst Island. Remember
  Catherine's letter? "Enter the number of Marker Switches on
  this island into the imager to retrieve the message." We've
  seen 8 marker switches, and were only able to activate 7. Go
  back to the imager by the docks to get that message.
                                            Dear Catherine [>] 
  
     Remember the hidden image sequencer panel behind the fake
  piece of paper on the wall? Press the button and input the
  number 8. Turn, walk to the imager, and press the button.
  Atrus will appear and deliver his message. He tells of his
  library being destroyed and how he suspects his sons. He
  tells Catherine that he's hidden the remaining undamaged
  books in their "places of protection." He reminds Catherine
  that if she's forgotten the access keys, to remember the
  tower rotation. Okay, then hop it up to the library and do
  some research. After all, wasn't that a tower that loomed
  above the library?
                         The Book is Better Than the Movie [>] 
  
     Go into the library and directly to the bookshelf on the
  back wall. When it is in full view you will be able to read
  each individual book. Atrus was right, most of these books
  are completely destroyed, burned at the hands of an
  arsonist, which son could have done this? The Channelwood
  Journal is the first readable book, it's red and green and
  is on the left side of the top shelf. Take and read this
  book. Click on it once to bring it into full view, and again
  to open it. Clicking on a page will turn it. This book tells
  of a land of tree dwellers. Each book will chronicle that
  land and show you some key drawings of it.
                                                Channeling [>] 
  
     Channelwood looks like a land of tree houses. The next
  book that's still readable is the red and blue Stoneship Age
  Journal on the right side of the top shelf. This book tells
  the story of 3 boys and their adventures. Make note of the
  submersible lamp, the lighthouse, and the 8 constellations
  of this land. These constellations have matching symbols
  like those etched into the bronze plates mounted on the
  markers in front of the pillars that ring the marble basin
  area. Use the empty journal provided with the game to sketch
  all pertinent information. Remember, these books will give
  you many clues to each of the ages.
                                            Apocalypse Now [>] 
  
     The next readable book is blue and is located on the
  middle shelf. This journal tells of the Selenitic Age and
  reads like the Bible's book of Revelations: replete with a
  land scorched by giant balls of fire from the sky, large
  craters and burned out wastelands. Make note of the drawing
  of the keyboard and receiving dish. These items will "play"
  an important role later during your travels to this age.
  It's a good idea to sketch the map of each age, they will
  prove invaluable in your later travels. The next book makes
  little sense. It's slightly singed, but still readable.
  
                                      The Book Of Patterns [>] 
  
     At the far right side of the middle shelf is a book of
  many different block patterns. They all are based on a 8 x 6
  grid. Don't write these down. Instead, remember what the
  patterns look like, as you will need to reference this book
  later. There's 1 more book that you can peruse. The brown
  book on the left side of the bottom shelf is the Mechanical
  Age Journal. In it you will read of an island fortress and
  an attacking fleet of ships. Make note of how the fortress
  works, the fortress floor plan, and the stairs. Do not skip
  through these books. A little time spent reading here will
  save you a lot of time later in the game.
                                                   Son Tsu [>] 
  
     On the left wall of the library, behold a red book on a
  display shelf with a red page sitting next to it. Open the
  book and insert the red page in it to communicate with
  Sirrus. Through the heavy static and interference you can
  see that he is unsure of who you are. He appears to be well
  mannered, though. As he struggles to see you, he pleads for
  you to bring more red pages. On the other wall you will find
  the book that contains Achenar. He seems a bit, shall we
  say, disturbed. He, like his brother, demands that you bring
  more blue pages. We at last have a direction to proceed in
  this quest. What purpose do these pages serve?
                                        Are We On The Map? [>] 
  
     The map on the left wall of the library holds the key to
  your travels through the different ages of Myst. Examine it.
  When you are close enough, all locations where you activated
  marker switches at are illuminated. Just behind the library
  you will see a blinking circular marker. Press on this
  marker and a line will appear. If you hold down on the
  marker, the line will rotate. As it passes over key
  landmarks, it will turn red. Release at the docks and you
  will hear creaks and groans as the tower aligns with this
  location. After that pretty impressive display, and now that
  the tower is rotated, what do you do?
                                      Secret Tower Passage [>] 
  
     There are 2 framed pictures by the bookcase. On the left
  wall is a picture of a set of stairs, on the right a set of
  book shelves that look awfully familiar. Touch the picture
  of the stairs. The image will swirl and the shelf of books
  will slide away to reveal a passage. At the end of that wood
  paneled hallway sits an elevator. Once in the elevator,
  press the blue button to be delivered to the tower. The
  indicator above the button will display "Tower" when you
  arrive, just to make sure. Exit the elevator and go straight
  to the ladder that has an open book plaque behind it, climb
  the ladder to the platform.
                                     I Can See Clearly Now [>] 
  
     Looking out the window, the landmark highlighted during
  the tower rotation will be visible, in this case the docks.
  Could this point the way to the place of protection for 1 of
  the remaining books? Climb down and go to the other ladder.
  A key plaque is mounted on the wall behind it. Climbing to
  the top reveals yet another plaque. This one gives 3 dates
  and times: 10/11/1984 10:04am, 1/17/1207 5:46am, and
  11/23/9791 6:57pm. The rotunda holds a decoder that will
  translate these dates. In order to leave the library, return
  to the pictures and touch the bookcase picture to close the
  passage.
                                              Take A Break [>] 
  
     This concludes the first part of the Myst Walkthrough.
  We've covered quite a bit of ground so far. The island of
  Myst is a beautiful place, the likes of which have never
  been seen on a PC screen. The beauty of Myst is only matched
  by the rich aural experience. Take a break from your travels
  now, pick a place on the island and sit back and relax. In
  the second part of this Walkthrough you'll explore the
  Stoneship and Mechanical Ages. So, for now, enjoy these
  tranquil surroundings and stay tuned.
  
                  STONESHIP AND SELENITIC AGES
                        by Stan Trevena
     Hopefully, you're well rested. We are going to set out to
  explore the Stoneship and Mechanical Ages today -- a major
  undertaking. You will need to draw on your experiences on
  Myst Island in these travels. The keys to all the ages of
  Myst are contained on Myst Island itself. As you'll recall,
  we've just completed our first tower rotation using the map
  on the wall of the library. We have several dates and times
  that were taken from the key plaque for decoding at the
  rotunda building.
                                               It's A Date [>] 
  
     Start with a quick trip to the rotunda building. Open the
  door and go in. Next to the door is a switch that will turn
  off the lights. Click, the whole room then looks like a
  planetarium. Take a seat in the chair and pull down the
  control panel. Input the dates from the key platform plaque.
  Each date will display a constellation that will match one
  of the drawings in the journal. The matching symbol icons
  from this translation will be: Leaf, Snake, and Beetle. Go
  down to the marble basin and find the columns with these
  icons. Press the matching bronze plates for these symbols
  and they'll turn green (don't worry, they're not jealous).
                                         Raise The Titanic [>] 
  
     Upon pressing the last plate, a loud rush of water will
  be heard -- like something big is draining. Aha, the ship in
  the bird bath raised. But that couldn't have made all that
  noise. What about the bigger ship? Yes! The ship by the dock
  is also raised. Board it and go below deck to find the first
  linking book on the blue chair. Open it and watch the flyby
  of the Stoneship Age. Touch the picture and you will be
  taken there. You'll find yourself standing at the aft of a
  ship that appears to have, itself, materialized on a large,
  stone island. A wood plank leads out to a sunken lighthouse
  to the right and an umbrella structure to the left.
                                            Walk The Plank [>] 
  
     There are several objectives on this island. First,
  restore power to the island structures. Walk out to the
  umbrella structure where there are 3 large buttons. Pressing
  the right button will pump out the lighthouse. Return there
  and find the key chained to the walkway. Down the spiral
  stairs is a large locked trunk. A small valve is set in the
  left side of the trunk -- open it to drain the trunk, then
  close it and return to the pump switches. Press the right
  button and return to the lighthouse. The trunk is floating
  alongside the key that's bolted to the walkway. Unlock the
  trunk and remove the key hidden inside.
                                                  Going Up [>] 
  
     Climb the ladder to the right of the chest. Use the key
  and open the attic door. There's a hand generator here and a
  battery pack. Crank the handle on the generator several
  turns until the power gauge on the battery pack shows solid
  white (i.e., you have a full charge). Go back to the pump
  station and press the middle button. This drains the tunnels
  in the large rock structure. Sirrus' room is down the
  passage leading from the aft platform where you entered this
  age. Look around this ornate area. There's lots to look at,
  but all you need to recover is the single red page in the
  bottom dresser drawer.
                                     Return To Myst Island [>] 
  
     There's a telescope at the pinnacle of the rock formation
  at the center of this island. Just to the left of the
  walkway to the lighthouse, there is a stone passage which
  you should follow as it leads up to the telescope. Look
  through the telescope and pan around. Stop on the roof of
  the lighthouse with the blinking light. This will be at the
  135 degree mark. Go back down the passage to Sirrus' room.
  On the wall, 1 landing up from either brothers room, will be
  a large recessed plate. Pressing it will reveal a secret
  passage to the compass room. On the floor of this room is a
  large antique compass. Now you're getting somewhere...
                                                  Due East [>] 
  
     Circling this compass are a series of small buttons.
  Press the 12th button from the north portion, but beware! If
  you press the wrong one, you will trip the lights and have
  to go back up to the lighthouse to recharge the battery
  pack. A light goes on if you press the right button. How
  strange, the light is underwater and can be seen through the
  windows in this room. Time to go back up to the pump
  station. Press the left button and the aft ship chamber will
  drain. Go below deck and note that the light you just
  activated with the compass button is illuminating this room.
  At the bottom of the hold is a book room. Go to the table.
                                Can I Check Out This Book? [>] 
  
     Touch the table top and the linking book will
  materialize. Remember, you can go into any of the chambers
  without the benefit of light. Both bed chambers appear to
  have independent energy sources and are lit up regardless of
  battery charge. However, if the underwater light is not lit,
  the book will not appear on the table. With the Myst linking
  book before you, open it and touch the picture to return to
  the library on Myst Island. Insert the red page in the red
  book and listen to Sirrus. He thanks you for the page and
  tells you that his brother is guilty, and that he is
  wrongfully imprisoned, emploring you to bring more pages.
                                    Back For The Blue Page [>] 
  
     The return trip is a breeze. Just go down to the ship by
  the dock, below deck, use the linking book, and you're back
  in the Stoneship Age. Recharge the battery pack and press
  the middle button at the pumping station to drain the center
  passages. Off the fore section of the ship is a passage
  leading down to Achenar's bed chamber. Achenar is not at all
  like his brother. From the looks of his room, you might say
  that he is a little on the twisted side. There's a lamp that
  looks strangely like a human rib cage. There, on the bed, is
  the blue page. Off to 1 side of the room is a large dresser
  with a strange apparatus perched on top.
                                       Only Half The Story [>] 
  
     On top of the dresser is a holographic unit. Turn it on
  and a rose appears, slide the lever and it morphs into a
  human skull. The second from the bottom drawer of this
  dresser has a surprise. This is the left half of a torn page
  from a journal -- something to do with marker switches and a
  vault. This could be important, so make a note of it's
  contents. With the blue page in hand, go to the pumping
  station and press the left button. Return to the book room
  and use the linking book to return to Myst Island. In the
  library, return the blue page to the blue book and listen to
  Achenar. He seems to be getting crazier, doesn't he?
                                               Rubber Room [>] 
  
     Achenar says that his brother cannot be trusted, that he
  was falsely imprisoned and that he will seek retribution for
  his brothers acts. The image is clearer this time, with less
  static. Maybe the more pages returned to the books, the
  better the communications link. With the way Achenar is
  cracking up, though, how well do you want that link to be?
     Use the map to rotate the tower again. This time,
  position the rotating pointer to the spaceship out on the
  point. Sure enough, looking out from the tower shows the
  spaceship in view. The key plaque displays a single message,
  "59 volts." Keep that number "current."
                         Snacks Are Available In The Lobby [>] 
  
     A trip to the power plant seems to be in order. The trip
  down the hill from the library is quick enough. Go in the
  brick building and down to the door at the bottom, then
  press the blue button and go in the door. There's a control
  panel with 10 switches in 2 columns. There are also 2 dials:
  the left is for island power, the right for power to the
 spaceship. Each switch powers up a generator. The trick is
  to flip the right combination of switches to total 59 volts
  on each dial. To do this press button 1 and 3 on the left
  column and buttons 3 and 4 on the right -- carefully! The
  number 59 should now be displayed on each dial.
                                               What A Trip [>] 
  
     If you press the wrong combination of switches you will
  trip 1 of the 2 tower breakers. If this occurs, shut down
  all generators, go out, find the tripped breaker, and then
  start again. Once you hit the 59s, enter the space ship and
  you will see a keyboard at one end and a set of 5 slider
  switches and a lever at the other end. Using the diagram
  from the Selenitic Age Journal of the keyboard, press the 1
  key from the diagram and then adjust the first slider so
  that the note generated matches the note played on the
  keyboard. Repeat for each of the 5 notes. When you think you
  have the right settings, pull the handle.
                                         Music To The Ears [>] 
  
     If the settings were correct, the linking book should now
  be displayed in the view screen. Touch the screen and watch
  a flyby of the Selenitic Age (which is pretty desolate).
  Like the first puzzle, 5 sounds must be identified and set
  into an access panel before you can return to Myst Island.
  Like the marker switches on Myst Island, there are sound
  transmitters scattered about at 5 locations that must be
  activated. Locate each and press the button. Make a note of
  each icon at each transmitter's site. Also note the sound
  that emanates from each location. WARNING: This is possibly
  the most difficult of all the puzzles of Myst.
                                                  An Oasis [>] 
  
     Cross the elevated walkway and follow the path through
  the pass to the left of the mountain. Set into the base of
  the mountain is a small brick structure with a coded access
  panel. The first small trail that branches left off the main
  trail leads around the left side of a large crater. Follow
  it to the oasis. It is here that you will find the blue page
  on a wood bench, to the left of the transmitter switch. Take
  it.
     The icon at this transmitter location is of 2 drops of
  water. Press the red button and listen to the sound of the
  water, you will need to remember this sound later.
                                             Water To Fire [>] 
  
     Go back to the large brick staircase just past the Oasis
  trail head. This leads to the chasm Atrus spoke of in his
  journal of this age. Activate this transmitter switch and
  make a note of the sound of the furnace below. The icon at
  this location is a chasm with steam rising. Go back down the
  stairs and continue down the path away from oasis and chasm.
  You will quickly come to the remnants of a once mighty clock
  tower. Activate the transmitter switch. Listen and note the
  sound of the clock. The icon here is of 2 clock hands.
  Continue down to the fork in the path, go right and up the
  hill towards the crystal forest.
                                            Crystal Forest [>] 
  
     In the crystal forest, you will find another transmitter
  switch. There's a unique sound produced here as the wind
  whistles through the crystal formations. The icon here is of
  a shard of crystal. There's a red page sitting atop the
  transmitter pedestal, so pick it up. (Where did the blue
  page go?) Return to the path and walk out to the jetty to a
  subsurface tunnel. The loud rush of wind exiting the tunnel
  is almost deafening. Activate the transmitter switch. The
  icon is a hole with air swirling out. Next, climb down the
  ladder into the underground tunnel. Turn on the light switch
  at the ladder's base.
                        The Light at the End of the Tunnel [>] 
  
     Climb the ladder at the other end of the tunnel, then
  climb the brick stairs to a large set of metal doors. Open
  the doors to expose a control panel, complete with video
  monitor, 2 directional arrows, a receiver coordinates
  display, 5 icon buttons that match the transmitter icons,
  and a sum button. The trick here is to rotate the receiver
  to lock in on each individual transmitter. When you get
  close, a directional arrow will flash in the direction of
  the signal. You will hear a clear sound played over the
  speaker when the right direction is locked in. IMPORTANT:
  Record the direction coordinates for each icon.
                                           The Coordinates [>] 
  
     The various coordinates are: Oasis-153.4, Chasm-130.3,
  Clock Tower-55.6, Crystal Forest-15.0, and the Underground
  Tunnel-212.2. Once all coordinates are set, press the sum
  button and the sounds will be played back in a specific
  sequence: Crystal Forest, Oasis, Underground Tunnel, Chasm,
  and Clock Tower. Return to the access panel back at the
  start of this age. By moving the sliders, different sounds
  will play. Set the sliders so the sounds play in the same
  sequence as above. When all the sliders are set, press the
  red button to open the doors. Go down the stairs to the rail
  car. Press the blue button and go in and take a seat.
                                        Which Way Do I Go? [>] 
  
     Press 'FORWARD' to start your trip in the rail car. Once
  lowered to the track, use the directional arrows to set a
  compass direction, forward to move forward, and backtrack to
  reverse your last movement. The correct sequence of
  directions is: N, W, N, E, E, S, S, W, SW, W, NW, NE, N, SE,
  and exit. At the end of the ride, exit and follow the
  passage. There you will find the Myst linking book, so use
  it to return to Myst Island. Back in the library, place the
  red page in the red book. Sirrus is easier to see and hear
  now with another page inserted. He begs that you bring more
  pages and warns you not to release his brother.
                                             The Blue Page [>] 
  
     The return trip is easy this time. The code is still set
  in the spaceship, so simply use the already displayed
  linking book to travel to the Selenitic Age. Return to the
  oasis and retrieve the blue page. When you go back to the
  maze entrance, the sliders are still set. Press the button
  and go down to the rail car which has magically returned to
  the start of the maze. Run the exact same directions through
  the maze. Use the Myst linking book to return to the library
  and insert the blue page into the blue book. Achenar now
  claims that Sirrus murdered their father and commands you to
  bring more pages. The plot thickens...
                                               Shore Leave [>] 
  
     That concludes the second installment of this Myst
   walkthrough. The two brothers offer a truly perplexing
  problem. Which of them is rightfully imprisoned and which is
  telling the truth? Does sanity count for anything, or has
  Achenar been driven to his insanity by his grief over the
  murder of his father? The time is coming when a decision
  must be made. Which brother will you free? In part 3 of this
  walkthrough, we will explore the Mechanical and Channelwood
  Ages, as well as the End Game.
  
  
      THE MECHANICAL AGE, CHANNELWOOD AGE AND THE END GAME
                        by Stan Trevena
  
     Have you come to any conclusions? Which brother is sane
  and which is really guilty? How did they get into their
  separate books anyway? Why are their pages scattered
  throughout the lands of Myst? So many questions and so few
  answers. Maybe you will find some more answers in the
  remaining ages of Myst. If not, how will you decide which
  brother to release?  Your decision will ultimately lead to
  either your escape or permanent residency.
                                         Trained Mechanics [>] 
  
     You've probably already guessed which landmark holds the
  linking book to the Mechanical Age; it's the large set of
  gears on the hill above the docks. Using the map in the
  library, rotate the tower to align with this spot. A trip to
  the tower will show proper alignment and disclose the key
  2:40 2,2,1. That first part is a time, and where is time
  used on Myst Island? The controls on the shore by the Clock
  Tower, of course. After arriving at the control box, turn
  the dials for hours and minutes to set the clock to 2:40.
  Press the red button and a hidden walkway of gears will rise
  from the water.
                                 What Was The Combination? [>] 
  
     Inside the tower is a strange device. It consists of 3
  numbered dials in a vertical stack, and at the base are 2
  levers on either side: one on the wall to the right, and a
  counter weight on a chain to the left. Pull and release the
  lever on the left and the bottom 2 dials will rotate 1
  digit. Pull and hold this lever and the bottom number dial
  rotates 1 position while the middle dial continues to rotate
  until released. Pull and release the right lever and the top
  2 dials rotate 1 position. Pull and hold the right lever and
  the top number rotates 1 position and the middle dial
  continues to rotate until released. Simple, right?
                                            Get It In Gear [>] 
  
     You are limited on the number of times you can pull the
  levers because, as you rotate dials, the counterweight
  drops. If it hits the ground you have to pull the lever on
  the wall to reset the dials and raise the counterweight. The
  quickest solution to this puzzle is: Pull and release right
  lever twice. Hold the left lever down until the 2 comes
  around on the middle dial, then release the lever. There
  will be a cranking sound as a mini-gear set in the base of
  the device rotates open. It looks a lot like the larger gear
  on the hill by the docks. Time to get up there and check if
  it has opened like this miniature model has.
                                           Fortress Island [>] 
  
     Sure enough, the gear is open and the linking book is
  just inside. Use it to get to the Mechanical Age, a place
  full of gears. Upon arrival, to your left is a gear set on a
  pedestal with a control panel. There are 4 icons that can be
  changed by pressing the green buttons. There's also a large
  red button under the row of icon buttons. Across a steel
  foot bridge sits a small fortress set on yet more gears. The
  track that encircles the fortress, and the long trap door
  guarded by railings, look just like a few of the drawings in
  Atrus' journal of this age. Cross the foot bridge to the
  fortress and go right once inside.
                                   Around And Around We Go [>] 
  
     Achenar's room is even weirder than those found in the
  other ages. There are all sorts of weapons laying about
  surrounded by strange wall decorations. There's a fortress
  rotation simulator here. By manipulating the levers, you
  will see a graphic of the fortress rotate through the 4
  compass directions. When you find the real rotation device,
  you will not have the benefit of a graphic display. Practice
  enough to be able to do this with your eyes closed. Listen
  carefully to the directional sounds. There's a recessed
  panel to the right of the simulator marked by a yellow
  stripe, press on this panel and enter the secret chamber.
                                           Torture Chamber [>] 
  
     The Blue page is beneath a shelf with poison bottles.
  Find the other exit from the bed chamber, follow it to the
  end, and you will be at the back entrance of Sirrus' room.
  Midway between these is a red button and another hallway.
  There appears to be a column at the end of the hallway.
  Pressing the red button opens a door in the floor. In the
  lower, level there's a small table with a display of 2
  semicircles, with 1 set inside the other, and a lever. Pull
  the lever and rotate the circles lining up the openings,
  then return upstairs. Push the red button again to close the
  stairs and go down the hall to the elevator.
                                                  Going Up [>] 
  
     The elevator has an up and down arrow with a square
  button set in the middle that serves as a timer. Go to the
  top floor and press the timer. Exit the elevator and, when
  the timer expires, the elevator will close and lower out of
  sight revealing the rotation device. Use the device to
  rotate and visit the islands north and east of this one. On
  each, you will find half of the 4 icon sequence needed to
  open the stairway at the start of this age. Return the tower
  to it's original location (south) and use this 4-icon code
  sequence to open the stairway. Finally, go down to the room
  and use the linking book to return to Myst Island.
                                               Mental Case [>] 
  
     Back at Myst Island, insert the blue page in the blue
  book. Achenar gets a little further down the road to the big
  rubber walled room on each return trip. He of course wants
  "more blue pages", so what else is new? He tells of Sirrus
  being the guilty party. He explains how Sirrus has a greed
  that cannot be quenched. Most of the conversation is the
  same old paranoid babble that Achenar seems only capable of
  vocalizing. Get back to the gear on the hill and the
  Mechanical Age linking book. Once back at the island, again
  cross the catwalk to the fortress, go left inside the door.
  This will take you to Sirrus' room.
                                              Sirrus Stuff [>] 
  
     Sirrus' room is filled with miniature models of all the
  devices on Myst Island. Each can be closely examined. Since
  the fortress is symmetrical, it only makes sense that there
  would also be a hidden room here. Below and to the right of
  Sirrus' "throne," behind the tapestry, is where the panel is
  located. Here is where his greed manifested itself in the
  gold bars and coins that litter the room. Laying in a chest
  of gold bars, in the back corner of the room, is a red page.
  There's a threatening note rolled up with the wine bottles
  from Achenar. Return to Myst Island with the fourth red page
  and insert it into the red book.
                                       The Fourth Red Page [>] 
  
     Sirrus actually seems a little calmer. With each page he
  says he can see more clearly and that soon he will be free
  of his prison. He sure is appreciative of the red pages and
  promises great wealth if the last one is retrieved. As is
  always the case with these 2 brothers, he mixes no words
  where his brother's concerned. He claims that Achenar is
  demented and took advantage of their father. He warns that,
  if released, Achenar will destroy both of you. He is anxious
  for the last page to be returned from the last unexplored
  age. The only other landmark that will activate the tower is
  the large tree.
                                           Channelwood Age [>] 
  
     Use the map in the library to rotate the tower to the
  large tree behind the small cabin just up from the Clock
  Tower. A quick check through the window in the tower
  confirms the tower position, and the key plaque only
  displayed the numbers 7,2,4. What the heck could those
  numbers mean? Just inside of the door and to the left in the
  small log cabin by the large tree is a wall safe. Setting
  the three tumblers to 7,2,4 and pulling the handle opens the
  safe. There's a box of matches in the safe. Is anything on
  this island normal? Before leaving the wall safe, strike the
  match on the box to ignite it. Things will heat up soon.
                                                Fire It Up [>] 
  
     Turn around and go to the furnace. Start by cranking the
  large wheel to the right to get the gas going, then touch
  the match to the pilot set in the lower left of the furnace
  base. Keep cranking the gas up until the temperature readout
  gauge is maxxed out. The loud thundering sound is the tree
  moving up out of the base. Cut the gas and run out to the
  tree and you will be able to jump into a compartment set in
  the tree for a ride down. At the bottom, there's a room with
  the Channelwood Age linking book sitting on a tree stump.
  Use this book to get to the Channelwood Age. Just as the
  journal had stated, this place is filled with trees.
                                      Myst Family Robinson [>] 
  
     There are 3 levels to the Channelwood Age; the water
  level walkways, the mid-level huts, and the upper level bed
  chambers of Achenar and Sirrus. The lower level is a very
  simple tree structure branching out from the windmill. The
  mid-level huts are mapped in the Channelwood Age Journal,
  and the upper level consists of a winding walkway that
  connects the 2 brothers' bed chambers. Also on this level is
  Achenar's imaging chamber. All mechanisms in this age are
  powered by a series of water pipes that emanate from the
  windmill. The windmill is to your left at the start of this
  age, so you'd best make your way there.
                                            Open The Valve [>] 
  
     Inside the windmill there's a water valve at the base of
  a large tank. Open the valve and you will hear the water run
  into the pipes. All through this level, you will know if the
  pipes at your feet are filled with running water by the
  sound -- no sound, no water. Also, at each fork of the
  walkway there's a 2-way valve. Move the red valve bar
  parallel to the pipe you want the water to go down. The
  spiral staircase seems like the logical way up, but the door
  is locked with no key. From the windmill, route the water
  left, then right 3 times. This will bring you to an
  elevator. Use the red lever in the elevator to go up.
                                               Open Sesame [>] 
  
     On the drawing of the middle level in the Channelwood Age
  Journal there's a line connecting a hut to the spiral
  staircase. Go straight from the elevator, then right 3
  times, then out to the hut with the switch for the spiral
  staircase door on the middle level. Pull the red handle to
  open the door. From this "switch hut," go straight through
  the first hut, right 2 times, through the square hut, elbow
  through the next square hut, and straight to the staircase.
  Go down the staircase and open the door on the first level.
  Go back to the first fork from the windmill and redirect the
  water right to the spiral staircase.
                                          Top Of The World [>] 
  
     Go up the spiral staircase and use the elevator to the
  left at the top of the stairs (which now has power). This
  will take you to the top level and the 2 bed chambers. Leave
  the elevator and head for the first hut that's visible. This
  is another of Achenar's play rooms (Achenar is a sick
  puppy). There's an imager that will activate when you enter
  the room, although it has no real purpose. Continuing on
  past this hut will bring you to Achenar's bed chambers and
  the master control for the imager. Flip through the 4
  messages and see the nice message from Sirrus. The fifth
  blue page is at the base of the imaging controller.
                                             Linking Paths [>] 
  
     At the other end of the winding walkway is Sirrus' bed
  chamber (we'll come back for the red page later). Go back
  down the elevator and staircase to the first level. Return
  to the first valve after the windmill and set the valves:
  left twice, then right to a dead end with a lever. Pull the
  red handle and a hidden walkway will float up. Follow the
  walkway in a half-circle past the elevator, and around to
  another dead end. Turn the crank here to extend a hidden
  pipe and connect it to the other side. Go back to the first
  valve again and set the valves: left, right twice and then
  left. Go back to the elevator across the floating bridge.
                                               Return Trip [>] 
  
     Go up the elevator to the Myst linking book. Use it to
  return to the library. Insert the blue page and wait for
  psycho boy to be freed. Achenar will speak of yet another
  page and a trap. He warns of a green book that is a trap. To
  get to his final page, pattern number 158 from the odd book
  of patterns in the library must be entered in the fireplace
  located here in the library. Before getting this last page,
  go back and get the blue page left behind. Retrace the path
  and actions through the log cabin, the large tree, and all
  the valve settings to get back up to the top level of
  Channelwood.
                                              Sirrus' Room [>] 
  
     Exiting the elevator, swing left and go to the hut at the
  opposite end from Achenar's. As always, the room is the
  model of perfection. The sought-after page can be found in
  the desk drawer under the window with a view of the
  windmill. In the right drawer under the bed is the other
  half of the page found earlier giving instructions for
  access to the hidden vault on Myst Island. Seems there are
  now 2 things to do back on Myst Island. By now, the way back
  is easy. Reset the valves yet again to power the linking
  book elevator and return to Myst Island, insert the red page
  in the library for the "other story."
                                              Sirrusly Now [>] 
  
     Sirrus now owes a debt of gratitude for returning the
  fifth page. He still claims that he is the innocent party
  and that his brother should not be released for both of your
  safety. The secret code on page 158 is given along with
  another dire warning about not touching the green book.
  Follow the directions on the reassembled journal page. Go to
  the dock and turn the marker switch off (all the others
  should still be "on," not "off" as written on the page --
   this is important). There, in a secret compartment in the
  base of the marker switch, sits a white page. But there are
  no white books. Mu-hu-ha-ha-ha! The plot thickens!
                                           Stoke Up A Fire [>] 
  
     Go back to the library and get the code book (middle
  shelf, far right). Carefully turn to page 158. Sketch this
  pattern and go over to the fireplace on the right wall, by
  the blue book. Crawl in and hit the red button to the left
  of the opening. Pressing on the metal plate that drops down
  will raise squares on the metal, duplicate the pattern found
  on page 158. Push the red button again and the fireplace
  rotates around to a small chamber. Here sits the last 2
  pages and a green book. Let's see, both brothers are more
  than a little whacked. If they both warned you not to touch
  the green book, what should you do?
                                      The $64,000 Question [>] 
  
     If you really are a glutton for punishment, go back and
  insert the blue and red pages into the brothers' books. You
  will quickly know what it feels like to be imprisoned in a
  book and watch anxiously as each brother removes your pages
  while having the last laugh. If you, instead, open the green
  book, you will get to meet Atrus in person and hear the true
  story. You'll know what to do with the white page after
  Atrus is done talking. If you hurried through Myst using
  this walkthrough, or you just want to go do some sight
  seeing in some of the best graphics available on a PC, use
  the book Atrus gives you to go back to Myst.
                                              An Open Book [>] 

     All the ages of Myst are open now for you to explore (at
  least until a Myst II, if any, is released). Atrus did say
  that he would summon you when he needed your assistance to
  rescue his wife (can you say "sequel?). Go back to the
  library and at least take a look at the brothers final fate
  (which shows that you don't want to get on Atrus' bad side).
  This concludes the Myst walkthrough but there are many
  things to see in this game that were not touched upon here.
  While they do not play a key role in solving the game, many
  of the items are very detailed and you may spend
  considerably more time just exploring Myst. Enjoy!
     Computer Gaming World can be reached at EXPT40B.

